
May 2017

22 -->
created LifeTable directory - idea is to begin process of modeling "what sort of mortality on certain demographics could explain the striped bass sex-ratio skew we see" (per Marty e-mail 16-May-2017)

herein I'll compile the necessary data & code to create such a model

June 2017

06 -->

(1) mortality from age-freq (catch curves) by sex; can get mortality for age intervals 3-4, 4-5, 5-6, etc.
(2) then can set up current life table based on starting of 100K or other

20 -->

(1) developed LifeTable() function based on table in http://www.tiem.utk.edu/~gross/bioed/bealsmodules/lifetables.html. As best I understand, this is a cohort life table. Will attempt to develop time-specific life table.

(2) must think about how to apply life tables not just by release year but by sex as well

26 -->

(1) completed (for the time being) the needed functions to create life tables (see file functions_life-table.R)
(2) will now create report (RMarkdown) for displaying some of the data (at least as a first-take)
(3) at some point if necessary StaticFrequency & CohortFrequency can be combined as one function

29 -->

TODO:
(1)	continue with application of life table for other years
(2)	create survivorship curve (lx ~ age) and compare male & female plots
(3)	research mathematical models to perhaps create a life table (or components thereof) when age data are limited or to be used in place of life tables; briefly I read such models do exist (and — I think — this will bring us closer to the original directive of this project)
(4)	age ‘un-aged’ years (2010+) using age-length key or von Bertalanffy growth model, then create life tables for said years
(5)	Develop plot for annual fraction of females by week for each method. Might see pattern there...

July 2017

06 -->

At the moment, left off in TestHazardFunction.R to turn to mark-recapture modeling. Current thinking is to find a model to 'correct' for missing data in life table or data (like count) that does not decrease with age (e.g., age 5 has 50 fish and age 6 has 60 fish). Potentially, at glm fit with 'poisson' might do the trick. I am looking for a model that will be simple to apply & will 'smooth' the data to avoid the aforementioned example. Might try to find a model to smooth lx, but this could be a bit more challenging, as it's dealing with proportions.

