
July 2017

06 -->
Met with Ken & Lara to discuss modeling 2017 mark-recapture data with hopes of producing some abundance estimate. Ken said there's a lot to work with here, even enough for a grad student's Masters thesis.

Ken's thoughts were to start simple & then work to more complex model. Simple models would make some assumptions, like closed population, etc.

Possible Models
(1)  Simple Petersen estimate (close population with no tag loss, no mortality)
(1a) Repeat 1 but allow for tag loss (assuming 5% loss --> recaptures / 0.95)
(1b) Repeat 2 but allow for tag mortality
(2)  Schnabel method & assumed closed population
(3)  Pollock method (pop estimate by period [e.g. week] assuming close population for said period)
(4)  (more complex) Jolly-Seber using POPAN from program MARK

Exploratory Data Ananlysis (EDA)
(1) recapture rate by trap --> thinking is that rate would decrease moving up-river
    can consider river km of trap then plot rate ~ river km
(2) develop matrix of traps (rel x rec) where data are recap rate

Ken stressed learing more about Program MARK and RMark and even suggested I take a workshop on using MARK.

25 -->
Been working lately to apply Schnabel and Schumacher & Eschmeyer methods to estimate N (overall) and per each interval (i, for example date or week). Broke through today (see code in MarkRecap-Development.R, section 'count by date'). Problem is I have not yet been able to calculate CIs given equations in Ricker or like sources. Well, I can calculate them but they are large (ridiculously so) and something seems a miss. So next step is to learn to calculate CIs.

Need to also...
(1) [like Ken said] calculate some probability of moving distance X within +/- 1-2 days
(2) make estimates like above but instead of by date, try by week, or groups of 4 days
(3) try to run Schnabel and Schumacher & Eschmeyer methods using RMark functions (Program MARK)
(4) try to run some simulations --- once 1-3 are dialed in --- varying recaptures (& maybe other variables)
(5) try other models that incorporate movement, death, tag loss, etc.
